When it comes to Spring Boot,
there is a lot of magic that happens behind the scenes
that we will unpack in this course.
First, let's talk about some of the notable features,
automatic configuration, starter dependencies,
the Spring Boot CLI, and the actuator.
So let's talk about each one of these in more detail.
Auto configuration is truly a time saving feature.
It will automatically configure the application based on
libraries added to your project's classpath.
Say, for example,
if you include a dependency in your Maven POM file
for the H2 in‑memory database,
Spring Boot auto configures your application for the
specific database access you need.
I will show you later how easy it is to enable auto configuration.
Another feature that I absolutely love is this concept of a starter dependency.
The starter dependency is included in your POM file,
and it acts like a one‑stop shop or a starter pack that
includes all of the dependent libraries you need.
First of all,
let's look at the minimum dependencies required to
create a web application using Spring.
Unlike Spring,
Spring Boot requires only one dependency to get a
web application up and running.
So,
if you include a starter pack or starter dependency called
spring‑boot‑starter‑test in your POM file,
Spring Boot will include most of the libraries needed for testing,
JUnit, Mockito, Hamcrest, Spring core, and Spring test.
If you include spring‑boot‑starter‑jpa,
it will include what you need for spring‑data‑jpa with Hibernate,
and dependencies for JDBC.
EntityManager, Transaction API, Spring Data JPA, and Aspects.
If you include spring‑boot‑starter‑web for web application development,
it automatically adds libraries like Spring MVC,
REST, Tomcat, and Jackson for JSON to Java object mapping.
The Spring Boot CLI is a command line interface for Spring Boot,
which means an entire application can be written using Groovy scripts.
All you have to do is install the Spring Boot CLI and create a Groovy file
that contains details about the required application.
The CLI is often used for rapid prototyping.
Next, there's the actuator,
which allows you to see what's going on inside of your
running Spring Boot application.
You get a peek into internal runtime operational
information about your application.
You can choose to manage and monitor your application
by using HTTP endpoints or with JMX.
You will be able to see things like your application's health status,
various metrics about your application, configured loggers,
audit events, HTTP trace info, and so on.
I will show you how easy it is to use this feature later on.
The code can be cloned from this link.
I recommend that you clone the code at this point. In the next module, you will be following along with me.